♪ Thank you for being a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road
And back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ "Thank you for being a friend" ♪
(mellow music playing)
-Aah!
-Aah! Oh.
Oh, Dorothy, what do you mean,
sneaking up on me like that?
You scared me half to death.
I'm sorry, Rose.
Next time I walk into a dark room
in the middle of the night,
I'll send a mariachi band
ahead of me.
What are you doing up?
I thought I heard a strange noise.
What kind of strange noise?
Like someone walking slowly
up creaking stairs.
We don't have stairs.
I know! How strange is that?
What are you doing?
Well, I thought I heard
a prowler outside.
Oh, my God, Dorothy!
Why didn't you call the police?
Oh, no, no.
It turned out it was a neighbor's cat
trying to mate
with our plastic flamingo.
What is it? I heard screams!
What's happening?
No, nothing.
Everything's fine, Blanche.
We never should have watched Psycho.
For 25 years, I have avoided that picture,
even when Stan invited me
to the Roxy
instead of over to
his mother's house for dinner,
and it turned out
that my instincts were right.
Norman Bates is scarier
than my mother-in-law.
And a much better dresser.
Oh, I never should have
watched it, either.
It always upsets me,
especially that shower scene.
Why, it's the reason
I prefer not to shower alone.
Sure, Blanche,
and Goldilocks and The Three Bears
is why you prefer not to sleep alone.
At least we're not alone tonight.
Oh, boy, you know,
there is nothing worse
than being wide awake
and scared and by yourself.
Oh, yes, there is...
Being wide awake
and scared and by yourself
without a double-fudge
chocolate cheesecake in the freezer.
Ah! I'll get the silverware.
-I feel better already.
-(laughs)
You know, I never used to do anything
like this with my old roommates.
You had roommates before us?
I never knew that.
Oh, yes.
Two very eccentric old ladies
who used to bathe together
and floss each other's teeth.
I kicked 'em out one morning,
and that very afternoon
went down to the supermarket
to advertise for new ones.
That was when I first met Rose.
(somber music playing)
-Are you okay?
-Oh, I'm fine.
Oh, I know exactly
what you're going through.
-I can read it in your face.
-You can?
Oh, sure. Your husband
or your boyfriend dumped you.
Oh, honey, don't let it get you down.
It's just the nature of the beast.
They'd do it in the mud if they had to.
You just go sleep with his best friend.
That'll even up the score.
Am I on Candid Camera?
You mean, you didn't get dumped?
Well, actually, I did,
by my landlord.
He threw me out of my apartment,
but I couldn't sleep with his best friend.
He's... he's over 80 years old
and thinks he's the Archduke Ferdinand.
Why did he throw you out?
The new owners of the building
don't allow cats,
and I'm not about to part
with Mr. Peepers.
Oh, I guess you two have been
through a lot together, huh?
Yes. I found him last week.
But I... I wouldn't feel right
having a home if he didn't.
We've become very attached.
I think that shows
great strength of character.
I like you and I like cats.
I also happen to have a room for rent,
and the name is Blanche Devereaux.
Why would you name a room
Blanche Devereaux?
(laughs)
That's very good.
I like a roommate
with a sense of humor.
My last two roommates were two old sticks
in the mud from Minnesota.
Oh! Tell me a little 'bout yourself.
Well, my name is Rose Nylund,
and I'm from Minnesota.
Stop it, girl. You're killing me.
Oh, but I'm not a stick in the mud.
Oh, listen, I can let my hair down
-and get crazy with the best of them.
-Really?
Hey, I think we'd get along great.
-I got a feeling you're a wild woman.
-Oh, you bet I am.
I eat raw cookie dough.
And occasionally,
I run through the sprinklers
and don't wear a bathing cap.
And at Christmas,
I've been known
to put away more than one eggnog.
-What's the matter?
-I think I'd better keep looking.
Oh, I... I'll stop eating
raw cookie dough.
No, honey, that's not it.
It's just the two of us
have nothing in common.
We're just two different kinds of people.
It wouldn't work out, believe me.
Can I pet your cat, lady?
Why, sure, sweetheart.
-What's his name?
-Mr. Peepers.
I had a cat just like him.
His name was Harpo.
But he died. I miss him.
Oh, well, you'll have to
get yourself another kitty.
Would your mommy let you
have another kitty?
Yeah, she said she would
get me one next week.
Well, if you'll promise to give him
a really, really good home,
I'll let you have Mr. Peepers.
Great.
Would it be okay if I call him Harpo?
Well, I don't think he'd mind.
-(Boy) Thanks a lot, lady.
-(Rose) There you go, sweetheart.
Mom!
Say, Rose... um...
Look, now, I'm not making any promises,
but how would you like to take a look
at that Blanche Devereaux room?
Really? I'd love to.
-Come on, let's go.
-By the way, what's your name?
(Blanche) That last remark was the reason
I didn't let you move in
that same day.
But after I saw
what I had to choose from,
you seemed like a gift from heaven.
You wouldn't believe
some of the people I interviewed.
Well, I think that about completes
our tour, Madame Zelda.
Anything else I can tell you
about the place?
Yes. Was a young woman
in a nurse's uniform
murdered in this house
with a handsaw?
Heavens, no!
Are you sure?
I'm getting a very strong vibration.
I see a woman in a white uniform
writhing and screaming,
and there's a man
kneeling over her.
If it was last Wednesday,
that was me
and the gentleman
I'm currently dating, but...
But that was a French maid's uniform.
(doorbell rings)
Mrs. Devereaux, you must
leave this house at once.
It's possessed by an evil spirit.
Actually, it's possessed
by Miami Federal.
And at 7%, you couldn't
blast me out of here.
-Yes?
-Are... are you Blanche Devereaux?
-Yes, what can I do for you?
-Well, I'm Dorothy Zbornak.
This is my mother, Sophia Petrillo.
Remember we spoke on the phone
about sharing the house?
Yes. Come in, uh-huh.
Move in this house,
and you'll die an agonizing death.
Thank you, Madame Zelda.
Goodbye.
Oh, ladies, I'm sorry about that.
You get so many weirdos
when you run an ad in the newspapers.
Please sit down.
Well, are you ladies
considering taking both rooms?
Oh, no. Just me.
Mother lives at the
Shady Pines Retirement Home.
Oh, the Shady Pines. I know
the Shady Pines. It's a lovely place.
It's a prison.
They lock us in our rooms and force us
to look like we're having fun.
Then they take pictures
for their brochure.
Ma, you know that's not true.
You'll have to excuse my mother.
She recently had a stroke,
and her perception
is a little, you know, distorted.
-Oh, I understand.
-No, you don't.
Why don't we start out
with a tour of the house,
and later on we'll sit down and go over
that application you filled out.
Wonderful. Oh, your house
is just breathtaking.
I know.
You said it looked like a dump
from the outside.
(Blanche) This is the lanai.
It is wonderful in the summertime.
Especially if you like to sunbathe
with your top off.
Oh, really, really?
And the neighbors can't see in?
Oh, sure they can.
The woman has "slut"
embroidered on her underwear.
Dear, ladies, I'm afraid
I'm running a little late.
May I just ask you a few questions?
Well, of course. Go right ahead.
What do you call
an inhabitant of Guam?
I don't know.
A Guamanian, I guess.
What does this have to do
with renting the room?
Oh, nothing. I just wanted
to finish my crossword puzzle.
Now, then, Dorothy, would you say
you are a very neat person?
Oh, yes. Very, very neat.
Please. You're neat, and I wear a d-cup.
(Dorothy) At that moment,
I was convinced I'd blown it.
I was sure I'd made
a bad first impression.
But then I met Rose,
and I realized
I could have shown up naked,
playing a ukulele
and still gotten the room.
Oh, it's been such a lovely day.
Mr. Sunshine really gave us
one of his biggest and brightest smiles.
Oh, I feel like putting my arms
around mother nature
and giving her a big kiss.
Hi, you must be Dorothy.
And you must be Mrs. Rogers.
No, but we have a Mrs. Rogers
at the grief center.
Oh, and there's a Mrs. Rogers
lives across the street.
And then of course, there's Dale Evans,
the most famous Mrs. Rogers
of them all.
I didn't catch your name.
I'm Rose Nylund, your new roomie.
Blanche has told me all about you.
Sorry your husband dumped you.
You can borrow my bubble bath
anytime you want.
That'll help ease the lonely nights.
Thank you very much.
Oh, I see you two
are getting acquainted.
Yes. I'm just gonna take my stuff
to my room.
It's the second on the left
down the hall there?
Dorothy, the second
on the left is mine.
Blanche had promised it to me.
Blanche promised it to me, too.
Didn't you, Blanche?
Whoops.
Oh, great, great.
What are we supposed to do now?
Back in Minnesota,
we'd settle this kind of a dispute
with some good-natured logrolling.
Sorry, Rose. My log is in the shop.
What do we do now, toss a coin?
-Okay.
-All right.
-I'll take tails?
-Okay.
Tails. You win.
I'll make it up to you,
Dorothy, I promise.
Listen, if there's ever a night
where you can't sleep,
I'll come to your room
and sing "Kumbaya."
(laughing) Rose, I don't know what to say.
Yes, I do.
Don't ever do that.
Well, Rose, what do you say
we help Dorothy move her things, okay?
Okay.
Gee, this is fun already,
being roomies with you two.
-(vase shatters)
-Oh!
-Blanche!
Ohh, Blanche,
I am so sorry.
Oh, I'll buy you another one.
Well, you can't.
That was one of a kind.
Oh, well, don't feel bad.
I never really liked it much anyway.
It's just that my grandmother
gave this to me on her deathbed.
She was very, very sick
for a very, very long time.
I loved her very, very much.
Blanche, why don't you just grind
the broken pieces in her hand?
Blanche, I... I know I can't replace it,
but I... I wanna make it up to you.
Listen, since this is
our first night as roommates,
I'd like to invite the two of you
to dinner at my favorite restaurant.
-Well, that's very sweet of you, Rose.
-Well, thank you, Rose.
Then we'd better hurry,
'cause the strawberry blizzard special
at the Dairy Queen only lasts till five.
Come on, I'll drive.
Oh, let's not drive.
Let's skip there.
(somber music playing)
Oh, my goodness,
it's 2:00 in the morning.
-And I am still wide awake.
-Me, too.
You know, before I met you two girls,
I was never up this late.
Except, of course,
during the Jerry Lewis Telethon.
Of course.
I was never a night person, either,
until I blossomed
into young womanhood
and realized I was even more
devastating by moonlight.
Of course.
I will never forget the night
I made that discovery.
It was during the spring cotillion.
I was wearing
a long white dress
and my first push-up bra.
And Bobby "Buck" McAllister
and I
were enjoying a glass of punch
out on the veranda
when a beam of moonlight
hit my cleavage.
Suddenly, the band began to play.
It was at that moment I realized
my bosoms had the power
to make music.
Didn't Bette Midler win
a special Grammy for that?
(laughing)
Oh, girls, isn't it wonderful
how we always have
such a good time together?
It's been that way
right from the start.
Please, Rose.
Don't you remember
the day after we moved in
when we went shopping together?
(tranquil music playing)
Walking by that sausage case
back there
really brought back
a lot of memories.
Sausage opens a floodgate
for many of us, Rose.
What's this, Blanche?
-Smoked oysters.
-Oh, come on.
Now, I know we said we'd go in
on everything equally,
but this is $4 a can.
Well, we have to have these.
They're absolutely essential.
Well, if you ever have a date with a man
who's a little... sluggish,
a tin of these and a bottle of cold duck,
you'll be prying him off the wall.
-Those are very nice cantaloupes.
-Why, thank you.
-This one's ripe.
-And how do you tell, Dorothy?
Well, you smell the tip of it.
It's an old Sicilian method
my mother taught me.
Oh, Dorothy, dear,
the best way to tell if a melon is ripe
is southern. You thump it.
Well, actually, roomies,
I have the best method,
the farm method.
It works every time.
And what might that be, Rose, dear?
No. Mm-mm.
Better.
Yeah, I almost forgot.
We need a Globe and A Tattler
and a Midnight Star
and an Enquirer and I guess
maybe one serious newsmagazine
so we know what's going on
in the world, one People.
(scanner beeps)
Ah, excuse me, you made a mistake.
Those peaches aren't 59 cents
a pound, they're 89 cents.
Honesty is the best policy.
What are you trying to do, Rose,
qualify for some kind of scout badge?
I can't help it if I'm an honest person.
Obviously something you don't know
anything about.
What are you talking about?
Well, you bought pantyhose in petite.
(laughs)
Anybody can see you couldn't
get those past your knees.
If you don't keep your voice down,
I'm gonna hit you in the head
with this loin of pork.
Oh, Blanche, come on!
$15.99?
Now, this is just too extravagant.
I'm not going in on this.
I don't even like loin of pork.
All right, then I'm not
going in on this nightstick.
-This is a pepperoni.
-It's obnoxious.
Uh, excuse me. You made a mistake.
That windex isn't on sale this week.
The regular price is $1.99.
Rose, why don't you just save it
for The Price Is Right?
Excuse me for trying
to be a good American.
Will you two please
keep your voices down?
I have shopped and dated extensively
throughout this market.
That does it. That does it.
I am shopping for myself.
Fine! Blanche and I will do
very nicely on our own.
Oh, no, I'm not shopping with you,
Mary Poppins.
Fine!
(sighs)
(clattering)
All right, who put the raisin bran
in the refrigerator?
I did. Do you have
a problem with that?
Yes, I do. I have two problems with it.
First of all, there isn't room
for it in there,
and second of all, it doesn't go in
the refrigerator, it goes in the cabinet.
It does not go in the cabinet.
It stays fresher
in the refrigerator.
(Blanche) No, it does not stay fresher
If it stayed fresher in the refrigerator,
there would be a sign on it
saying "refrigerate."
Actually, you're both wrong.
It does not belong in the refrigerator.
It does not belong in a cabinet.
It belongs in a glass canister.
That way, it's not only
visually appealing,
but you can see if they cheated you
out of raisins.
I thought everybody knew that.
You know, until I met you, Rose,
I didn't know that people actually
talk back to their rice Krispies.
Uhh. All right, I have had it.
Thanks to all this constant bickering,
I now have a splitting headache.
Oh, girls, let's face facts.
The three of us just can't agree
on anything.
I mean, it is obvious
we were not meant to live together.
I hate to agree with you,
but I think you're right.
I think so, too. In fact, I know so.
This is exactly what happened
during the Great Herring War.
The Great Herring War?
Yes. Between the Lindstroms
and the Johanssons.
Oh, that Great Herring War.
The two families controlled
the most fertile herring waters
off the coast of Norway,
so naturally it seemed
like it would be
in their best interest
to band together.
Oh, boy, was that a mistake.
You see, they couldn't agree
on what to do with the herring.
Oh, well, that's understandable.
I mean, the possibilities
are overwhelming.
Exactly. The Johanssons wanted
to pickle the herring
and the Lindstroms wanted
to train them for the circus.
Weren't they kind of hard to see,
riding on the elephants?
Oh, not that kind of circus.
A herring circus.
Sort of like Seaworld, only smaller.
-Much, much smaller.
-(Dorothy chuckles)
-But bigger than a flea circus.
-(Blanche) Mm-hmm.
Tell me, Rose, um...
(laughs)
Did they ever shoot a herring
out of a cannon?
Only once.
(laughing)
But they shot him into a tree.
After that, no other herring would do it.
You're making this up!
I am not! My grandfather
told me that story.
Of course, he also used to
call me by my sister's name.
And... and sometimes he'd wear his
underwear on the outside of his pants.
I guess he wasn't
a very reliable source.
Ohh. Ah-ha-ha!
Oh, girls...
Girls, do you realize
what just happened?
I know I've been having
a very good time,
and there wasn't even
a man in the room.
Do you think it was just a fluke,
or do you think we could learn
to like each other?
Well, I think it might take time,
but... but I think it could be worth it.
-Let's give it a shot.
-Great!
-I'm game.
-Okay.
(all laughing)
Wait a minute. What's that?
Oh, I'm sorry. I know it's awful,
but I have this incredible sweet tooth.
-What is it?
-Cheesecake.
-What kind?
-Chocolate.
Oh, I think this could be
the beginning
of a beautiful friendship.
I guess some things never change.
They sure don't. We've almost finished
the entire cheesecake.
Oh, what the hell.
It was a special occasion.
Yeah, and it sure took
my mind off of Psycho.
Listen, these can wait till morning.
Let's go to bed.
Okay. (yawns)
-Aah!
(laughing)
Ma, that is not funny.
Are you kidding? It's a riot.
I pulled it once on old man Peterson,
after we saw Psycho at the home.
They had said
he would never walk again.
He walked.
Well, good night. Sweet dreams!
Well... I think I'll have
just one more cup of tea.
-Yeah, and we can finish the cheesecake.
-Sounds good.
You know what would go so good
on this cheesecake
is those chocolate sprinkles.
We finished those an hour ago.
We could crush some Oreos on top.
We ran out of those two hours ago.
-How about some whipped cream?
-Mmm!
I think we still have a can.
-I'll get it. It's in my bedroom.
-Never mind, Blanche.
(closing theme music playing)